# 2021.06.24 Journal Entry

**Challenge**
Today's two challenges were:

1. Writing the ETL scripts to transform and load.
2. Configuring the index.js and queries.js files to work with postgres


**Actions**

1. After spending a lot of time trying to write SQL scripts that would match a string from one table with the string in a column from another table, and then write the corresponding primary key from the second table to a column in the first table, I had a conversation with our instructor Josh and decided that given the time constraints of the project it would be better to simplify the db schema for now so that I'm ready for performance testing. It was agreed that my approach was a good one from certain other perspectives, so I may refactor later when time allows.

2. The second task was to get the server running and to start making queries in the postgres db from various server endpoints. I decided to use the postgres node library (ps) and express. The ps queries are stored in a separate file which uses the pool method from the ps library to make queries. The pool method is used because connections to the db require a 'handshake' where authorization is confirmed, which takes 20-30ms, so the authorization is established once and then the pooled requests are made.

**Result**

The database is now loaded with the provided data.

The endpoints are written for the server, but the queries are not yet complete. The biggest outstanding question for tomorrow is how to make multiple queries in one pool (conversations with colleagues suggests this should be fairly straightforward). Once the data from several tables comes back it may need to be transformed a bit. It looks like both callback and promises can be used with the pool queries to postgres, so I'll need to decide which to use and then determine how best to reformat the data from different tables to send in the response.