# 2021.06.25 Journal Entry

**Challenge**

Today there were two main challenges.

1. Getting access to the server in such a way that queries to multiple tables could be returned to requests to one endpoint.
2. Writing database queries that will return the data required transformed such that it matches the API specs.


**Actions**

1. I decided to use a library called pg-promise to make my async queries to postgres.
2. This work is ongoing, but at the moment I am leveraging joins to get all the data I want with one query.

  const stylesQuery = 'SELECT s.id, name, original_price, sale_price, is_default, p.thumbnail_url, p.url, k.id sku, k.size_label, k.quantity FROM styles s LEFT JOIN photos p ON s.id = p.style_id RIGHT JOIN skus k ON s.id = k.style_id WHERE product_id=$1';


**Result**

1. There were some pains with getting everything connected and working between my server index file and the queries I wrote with pg-promise. It is working now, and greatly simplifies the pool/client connection process by handling it behind the scenes. I was getting errors about unhandled promises, but figured ou that I can add a catch callback in the database connection configuration (and could also create catch statements more immediate to the promises).
2. Currently all the data that is required is coming back, but because of the joins there are a lot of data that are repeated. I need to refine the queries, either making more than one (though this will probably require making multiple join queries which could affect performance), or working out the syntax to have the database itself build out the structure of the data.

Queries under consideration:
  const photosQuery = 'SELECT thumbnail_url, url FROM styles s LEFT JOIN photos ON s.id = style_id WHERE product_id=$1';
  const skusQuery = 'SELECT k.id, k.size_label, k.quantity FROM styles s LEFT JOIN skus k ON s.id = style_id WHERE product_id=$1';