# 2021.06.29 Journal Entry

**Challenge**

1. Create the docker image for my app.
2. Create new EC2 instance
3. Migrate db to EC2 instance

**Actions**

1. I had previously installed docker. Today I created new files called Dockerfile and dockerignore in the root. I then created a new image by runnning:

> docker build -t products .

From there I created containers by running the following:

> docker run -d -p 1000:3000 --name new_container_name --rm products

2. I decided to use postgres dump and restore to migrate the database.

I first tried to upload the dump file to google drive and then used curl to download the file (which I made available with a link).

I then instead tried to use scp to upload the file from my local storage to EC2.

**Result**

I've got the docker image created and can push it to docker hub. That will allow me to spin up containers easily on my EC2 instance.

I never did get curl to download the file from drive. I'd enter the command line prompt and get a flash of a status, but when I used the progress bar option with the command it was saying the operation finished almost instantly. The file is over 4GB though, so that's not possible, and sure enough the file was no where to be found.

While trying to use scp I ran into an issue where I repeatedly got a **Permission denied** error. I realized that I had been switching to the root user when making changes in the EC2 secure shell, but was not able to use that user with scp. I had to update the default user's (ubuntu) permissions to modify the target directory. This was done with the following commands:

> sudo chgrp -R ubuntu /home/ubuntu/data
> sudo chmod -R 770 /home/ubuntu/data

The first one updates the group permissions for the directory. The second updates all permissions for the owner and other user groups (more here: https://www.december.com/unix/ref/chmod.html).

That worked, though the upload took a couple hours.